=nikki=

'''Author:''' Bryce Campbell

'''License:''' See License

'''Description:''' A Rust based CLI tool to simplify journaling

'''Version:''' 0.1.0

==Notes==

This program has been tested on macOS Sequoia, but it 
<strong>should</strong> on any platform.

===Version History===

<dl>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">0.1</dt>
<dd>
<p>Initial release.</p>
<p>Released 6/29/2025.</p>
</dd>
</dl>

===Questions===

<ol>
<li>
<dl>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">There are already so many journaling application systems. Why create yet another?</dt>
<dd>
<p>While I have indeed found plenty of option,
<a href="https://jrnl.sh/en/stable/">jrnl</a>, even 
some having features that I'd like, 
they seem to be a bit more complicated than I'd like.</p>
<p>Also having made a tool to do my finances, 
so that I can do that nearly anywhere, I thought I would make my own.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li>
<dl>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">Why the name nikki?</dt>
<dd>
<p>Sometimes, it can be hard to come up with a name, 
especially if you want it to stand out.</p>
<p>I was going to it chronicle, but as the name was taken, 
I decided to try to look up a word in Japanese meaning diary
and I found that nikki had that meaning and nobody really used it, 
except for maybe the anime/manga series <cite>Mirai Nikki</cite>, 
so I decided to go with that.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
<li>
<dl>
<dt style="font-weight:bold">Does nikki support encryption?</dt>
<dd>
<p>No, it does not because I wanted something simplistic 
and allowed me the flexibility of not even needing the program itself
to read or write entries.</p>
<p>If you want encryption, I suggest looking elsewhere, 
as there are plenty of other options out there.</p>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ol>

===Usage===

after installing the program, all you need to do is something like this:

<pre>
nikki pen
</pre>

This will create your first entry in your new journal in the following directory:

<pre>
~/.journal
</pre>

and then it will launch the default text editor on your system, such as:

* vi
* emacs
* nano
* ed
* micro

After that, you can just write up your entry.

If you'd like to avoid this step, type something like the following instead:

<pre>
nikki pen -e "Hello, World!"
</pre>

Once you have typed up your entry and saved it or run the above command,
a file with your entry should be viewable at the following location:

<pre>
path/to/journal/current year/current month/current year-current month-current day_current_hour-current minute.md
</pre>

For example, if it is March 3<sup>rd</sup>, 2032 and the time is 1 P.M. 
when you run the <strong>pen</strong> command, the location would be:

<pre>
path/to/journal/2032/3/2032-03-03_13-00.md
</pre>

While the directory structure cannot be changed, 
you can specify a location for your journal other than the default, 
which would be a hidden folder on macOS, Linux, and FreeBSD in your home directory,
by doing something like this:

<pre>
nikki pen ~/work
</pre>

Regardless of what method you choose, 
nikki will create all directories that do not exist.

====Reading Entries====

While it is not necessary to use nikki to read 
through your journal entries, 
as your entries are saved as plain text files, 
you can use nikki to do so far easier than on your own.

To read your entries, you can do something like this:

<pre>
nikki read "2032-03-03 13:00"
</pre>

This will bring up the journal entry you wrote on or for March 3<sup>rd</sup>, 2032 at 1 P.M., 
and will look like this:

<pre>
2032-03-03 13:00
-----

Hello, World!
</pre>

To see entries recognized by nikki, type the following:

<pre>
nikki list
</pre>

This will go through your journal directory and list all your entries in
the exact format you'll need to display them with nikki.

Because of how this all works, 
you don't even need to use nikki to compose your journal entries 
and it will recognized them, as long the file is named 
and saved in the same directory structure as presented above.

the <strong>list</strong> and <strong>read</strong> 
commands function similiarly to the <strong>pen</strong>